let's bring in Omar sure uh Omar is a
professor of security and Military
studies at the Doha Institute for
Graduate Studies Omar something that the
UN said when they reacted to the killing
of of of of these Palestinians waiting
for food yesterday was they said we
can't we we didn't deliver that Aid
because we can't deliver any Aid to
Northern Gaza because deconfliction
doesn't work
anymore I need you to explain to our
viewers what that is deconfliction what
it means and what it means that it's not
working so deconfliction cells is a
coordinating is a coordination form
ideally between the two combating sides
so between shall we say the Palestinian
resistance on one end and the IDF on the
other and they will have a communication
line and they will coordinate where the
fighting should be and when there's some
form of humanitarian assistance going on
they will communicate to be able to
organize this so there are no accidents
no shooting by accidents no
misunderstandings no abuse use of the
humanitarian corridors and the
humanitarian um uh supplies for one side
or the other um but since this cannot
happen then there should be uh some some
form of mediators usually with a third
side since there's no third side uh uh
realistically and there's a complete
mistrust between the IDF and and the
Palestinian resistance so what we what
we're seeing is and what we should
expect actually is uh more and more um
possible war crimes or accidents
whichever way you want to put it uh but
very uh very serious when you don't have
these type of deconfliction cells so
this would be the UN deconflict around
delivery of Aid would be the UN saying
we're sending in trucks we're sending in
trucks to this place this location at
that time this is what it will look like
don't attack this area at that time is
that right uh don't attack this area
that's one but also protect this area
and try to and try to organize how this
Aid is going to be delivered whether
from the areas where the uh the IDF is
in control War where where Hamas is in
control so ideally it should be a
commanders on local commanders uh
localized commanders in these two in in
this specific area whether I don't know
bate commanders or or hire on the IDF
side or from Hamas side some of the
Battalion commanders and they would be
actually talking or having a
representative talking to the uh the UN
or whatever human when the UN says
deconfliction we can't bring Aid because
deconfliction doesn't work in the past
there there their aid convoys haven't
been attacked by Hamas right un agencies
have never said well Hamas has attacked
our Aid convoys that's why we're not
going they've said our Aid convoys have
been attacked by the Israeli military
and that's why we're not going yeah um
so when they say deconfliction isn't
working that means they can't secure
commitment for the is from the Israeli
military to not attack Aid that's uh
that it looks like so it looks like so
because so far the shall we say the
areas or the apparent control in in
these areas is by the IDF and therefore
they have the upper end in in in these
areas and therefore they're more and
more responsible uh and they are also
the occupation Force so they they have
more and more responsibilities in these
areas to provide security for the
humanitarian aid
but combat is chaotic you know you can
have accidents that you don't expect so
that's why it's very important to have
the these type of either uh mediator Le
deconfliction cells or deconfliction
cells by representatives from the from
from both sides but but can I point out
you say you say combat is chaotic and I
understand that of course I think all
our viewers can understand that but what
Aid agencies delivering Aid to Northern
Gaza have said recently has not been oh
we were caught in crossfire or we got
caught in the middle of a gunfight it
what they've said is our Convoy has been
attacked some have said it was
deliberate others didn't go there but
they've said it was attacked by the
Israeli military it doesn't sound like
they're getting caught in
crossfire yeah it it could I mean it
could be we need more to know more and
more about the details of what happened
it could be um you cannot yesterday
there was okay so to bring it to
yesterday there was no Crossfire
involved yesterday even the Israeli
military never said we were fighting
Hamas in that area they said we felt
threatened and that's why we opened fire
yeah it's Hamas maybe Hamas is not even
there this is part of the issue you know
the the the chaos here can can come from
uh a a miscalculation by a shall we say
a battalion commander on the in the IDF
side that decides that well this is a
threat and I'm going to act on it or um
on the other side someone decides that
okay the Israelis are attacking so I'm
going to use this situation to fight
back and and then chaos happens so it
could be a miscalculations that's why
you have you need to have a bit of a
higher up in terms of the command and
control structures either talking to
each other or talking to a mediator
and there needs to be a minimum of trust
it's a very fleeting trust it's a it's
just a trust to deliver some aid for
population that is starving and it needs
this Aid desperately so it needs to this
very very short window of opportunity to
be able to deliver that and it and it
needs to be organized and that's why
it's called the confliction everybody
has them in in most conflicts that I
know of they were there even in in some
of the very the most intense ones uh
they were there
sometimes they were they are abused um
okay no no denial about that but and
sometimes they fail and that can be one
of the reifications but they are very
very necessary they're not sufficient
but they're the has said that that it it
seems at least that the trust no we know
the trust is completely broken down
because the UN is saying deconfliction
is not working Omar Shore thank you so
much for explaining that to our viewers
this hour thank
you